DU BELLAY'S REGRETS

With his title, Du Bellay echoes the name of one of the collections of poetry
the Latin poet Ovid wrote when in exile: Tristia. Whereas Ovid laments his
absence from Rome, Du Bellay in Rome longs for France. There are other such
reversals in the sonnets we have studied.

Du Bellay adopts many distinct, though often overlapping, authorial poses. One
must not read the Regrets as simple autobiography.

Desire and loss (especially in the early sonnets) are borrowed from love poetry;
but the poet’s idealized native land replaces the mistress. Then finally, in the
poems of praise (encomiastic sonnets) Marguerite de France, sister of Henri II,
comes to represent all that is noblest in the homeland. Seventeen sonnets are
devoted to her.

Other sonnets in the final section concerned with France are more disillusioned,
providing a sad echo to the enthusiasm of the first section. Du Bellay’s court
case replaces the duties and cares he had as intendant of the Cardinal’s
household.

Du Bellay creates a poetics of the everyday, renouncing epic aspirations; yet at
the same time he presents his journey to Rome as a modern epic and associates
himself with Ulysses, Jason, etc. Language and tone are complex, simplicity is
studied.

He uses the familiar letter or epistolary form, inviting a response from many,
mainly French, interlocutors. This is an open form.

At the same time he writes in sonnets, an Italian form never before attempted in
a full sequence in French. He uses alexandrines (twelve syllables) throughout,
fusing French with Italian structures. 

France is represented in the elegiac sonnets by natural colours, as an idyllic
rural location. Rome by contrast will contain red (the cardinals’ hats) and
black. It is evoked largely in the satirical sonnets, which we have not studied.
Roman courtisanes are the subject of one group of satirical sonnets. The poet
suggests that in Rome one cannot write love poetry, as amorous relationships are
debased and disease-ridden.
